#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation
Measureit runs on a Raspberry Pi without problems.

I recommend the usage from a pre configured iso image where all software is installed. 

The installation from the software is not the same that is described in the [https://code.google.com/p/measureit/wiki/Linux Linux] part.

The setup is lightweight, very fast and did not need much system resources so you can do additional things with your pi.

Just download and copy it on the SD-Card. All services runs with system start.

The measureit iso requires an 4 GB SD-Card but more space is always good :) 

It is based on the [http://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads Raspbian “wheezy”]

Software that was additionally installed on the original image:

php5-fpm

nginx

mysql

samba

daemontools

Except daemontools all packages are from the offical sources.

php5-fpm and nginx are controlled with supervise.

The directories from measureit you can reach per samba share.

/web - public files 

/usr/local/measureit - private files f.e. the data grabber

The username is web and the password is raspberry

You can reach the Raspberry Pi with 2 pre configured ip adresses and with the dafault ip from dhcp

10.0.0.99 with the gateway 10.0.0.1

192.168.0.99 with the gateway 192.168.0.1

[http://elinux.org/RPi_Easy_SD_Card_Setup Here you will find informations how to flash the image]

[http://elinux.org/RPi_Resize_Flash_Partitions To enlarge your image if you have a SD-Card > 4GB take a look here]

The download is to big to hosting it on google code. 

So I share it with a download service. Warning. It uses flash :(

If you know an other one where 615 MB files are no problem please let me know

Feedback welcome :)

Version: 114

2013-02-09-wheezy-raspbian-measureit-114-4gb-final.tgz (615.4 MB)

https://mega.co.nz/#!mA1nQJTb!FJiWmz7Z55PNqe7OdzCVh2Cug1ZTDlan4DI1pyJCcvM


Version 113

2012-12-16-wheezy-raspbian-measureit-113-4gb-complete.tgz (610.1 MB)

https://mega.co.nz/#!3ZtQhQSJ!KEi27jJ2oMwA2St9joIvUAN6O38zqqELZcTb7K-zOTI